- At one time, the term ==network== meant the set of serial lines used to attach dumb terminals to mainframe computers.
- Other types of networks from previous days:
	- telephone network
	- cable network for video signals
	All these networks are specialised to handle one particular task and to handle one particular type of data.
- Unlike these, ==computer network=='s most important feature is its generality.
- Computer networks are built primarily from general-purpose programmable hardware, and they are not optimised for a particular application.
- Instead, they are able to carry many different types of data, and they support a wide, and ever-growing, range of applications.

- **Network Architecture**: it identifies the available hardware to form a complete network system.
# Applications
- **Common Uses**: World Wide Web, email, streaming audio and video, chat rooms, and music (file) sharing
## World Wide Web
- **In Web**, each selectable object on a page is bound to an identifier for the next page to be viewed, called ==Uniform Resource Locator(URL)==.
- **http**: protocol used to download the page
- `www.some-site.some-extension`: is the name of the machine that serves the page.
- by clicking on just one such URL, as many as 17 messages may be exchanged over the Internet and this assumes the page itself is small enough to fit in a single message
	- six messages to translate the server name ( `www.some-site.some-extension`) into its Internet Address (`123.456.789.12`)
	- three messages to setup Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connection between browser and server.
	- four messages for your browser to send the HTTP “get” request and the server to respond with the requested page (and for each side to acknowledge receipt of that message)
	- four messages to tear down the TCP connection
	- and this does not include the millions of messages exchanged by Internet nodes throughout the day

- interactive video usually implies that video is flowing in both directions, while a video-on-demand application is most likely sending video in only one direction